docker/postgis/README.md, before:

# PostgreSQL with GEOS 3.6.4 and PostGIS 2.4.8
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/postgis.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/postgis "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com") [![Docker Automated buil](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/postgis.svg)]()

A custom PostgreSQL Docker image based off GEOS 3.6.4 and PostGIS 2.4.8.

## Usage

Run a PostgreSQL container and mount it to a persistent data directory outside.

In this example we start up the container and create a database `openmaptiles` with the owner `openmaptiles` and password `openmaptiles`
and mount our local directory `./data` as storage.

```bash
docker run \
    -v $(pwd)/data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
    -e POSTGRES_DB="openmaptiles" \
    -e POSTGRES_USER="openmaptiles" \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="openmaptiles" \
    -d openmaptiles/postgis
```

### Environment Variables
Unlike all other OpenMapTiles repositories, this repo uses a different set of environment variables to initialize the database - `POSTGRES_*`. See (full documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/).

## Build

```bash
docker build -t openmaptiles/postgis .
```

Commit message:

Upgrade to PostgreSQL 9.6 + Postgis 3.0 (#268)
* Keep using PostgreSQL 9.6, but built by the Postgis community instead of our own
* Upgrade from Postgis 2.4.8 to Postgis 3.0 (latest is 3.0.1)
* Add [GZIP extension](https://github.com/pramsey/pgsql-gzip) (used by generate-mvt if available)
* Switch to the official source for [mapnik-german-l10n](https://github.com/giggls/mapnik-german-l10n) (osml10n) extension, but keep the same version as we have now -- v2.5.5. The latest is v2.5.8 which we can upgrade to later.

docker/postgis/README.md, after:

# PostGIS + OSM-specific extensions Docker image
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/postgis.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/postgis "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com") [![Docker Automated buil](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/postgis.svg)]()

This images is based on PostgreSQL 9.6 and PostGIS 3.0 [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/postgis/postgis/) and includes [osml10n extension](https://github.com/giggls/mapnik-german-l10n.git) - OSM-specific label manipulation support.

## Usage

Run a PostgreSQL container and mount it to a persistent data directory outside.

In this example we start up the container and create a database `openmaptiles` with the owner `openmaptiles` and password `openmaptiles`
and mount our local directory `./data` as storage.

```bash
docker run \
    -v $(pwd)/data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
    -e POSTGRES_DB="openmaptiles" \
    -e POSTGRES_USER="openmaptiles" \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="openmaptiles" \
    -d openmaptiles/postgis
```

### Environment Variables
Unlike all other OpenMapTiles repositories, this repo uses a different set of environment variables to initialize the database - `POSTGRES_*`. See (full documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/).

## Build

```bash
docker build -t openmaptiles/postgis .
```
