imports/README.md, before:

# Import Docker Images
Each subdir here creates a docker image with some pre-computed dataset. For example, the natural-earth image downloads and cleans up data from the [Natural Earth project](https://www.naturalearthdata.com/). When ran, the image would simply inject the prepared data into PostgreSQL database, without additional downloading and preprocessing.

## lakelines [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-lakelines.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-lakelines) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-lakelines.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-lakelines)
## natural-earth [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-earth)
## osm [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-osm.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-osm) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-osm.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-earth)
## osmborder
#### Generator [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder)
#### Importer [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-osmborder.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-osmborder) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-osmborder.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-osmborder)
## water [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-water.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-water) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-water.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-water)
## wikidata [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-wikidata.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-wikidata) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-wikidata.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-wikidata)

----

## generate-vectortiles [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles)

Commit message:

update import-sql readme, ignore imports for tools

imports/README.md, after:

# Import Docker Images
Each subdir here creates a docker image with some pre-computed dataset. For example, the natural-earth image downloads and cleans up data from the [Natural Earth project](https://www.naturalearthdata.com/). When ran, the image would simply inject the prepared data into PostgreSQL database, without additional downloading and preprocessing.

## lakelines [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-lakelines.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-lakelines) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-lakelines.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-lakelines)
## natural-earth [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-natural-earth.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-earth)
## osm [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-osm.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-osm) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-osm.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-earth)
## osmborder
#### Generator [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/generate-osmborder)
#### Importer [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-osmborder.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-osmborder) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-osmborder.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-osmborder)
## sql [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-sql.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-sql) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-sql.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-sql)
This image is obsolete, and should not be used. Use `openmaptiles-tools` image instead. `import_sql.sh` was copied to `/bin`.
## water [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-water.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-water) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-water.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-water)
## wikidata [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/import-wikidata.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/import-wikidata) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/import-wikidata.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/import-wikidata)

----

## generate-vectortiles [![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/openmaptiles/generate-vectortiles)
